Ian Smith
· ·
ismith1024@gmail.com
+ 1 613-601-0541
208-323 Winona Ave
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
github.com/ismith1024
·
K1Z 5H3

Summary

I provide solutions for Business process automation, data pipelines, web-based tools for supply chain risk assessment, and scraping
web repositories to obtain research data. I provide machine learning, data analysis, and process automation solutions 
in Python for an engineering team in the domain of supply chain risk analysis. I also interpret the results of the findings and 
communicate directly to stakeholders — customers, my internal organization, and the public.


Technical Skills
Technologies: Python (Pandas, Requests, Scikit-learn, NumPy, Flask, matplotlib, Plotly), SQL , Java, Javascript,
R , Jupyter Notebooks, Git
Applications: Data pipelines and ETL , Web scraping, Machine learning, Natural language processing, Web
apps, Mathematical and Statistical models, Business-domain research
Professional Experience
Intertek
Global Restricted Substances — Ottawa, Canada
Engineer
October 2009 – present
Intertek is a global auditing, testing, and certification service provider. Designed and implemented a
configurable risk analysis platform for worldwide chemical regulatory compliance. Mine and analyze
data to keep up to date on enforcement and risk trends. Automate business processes. Mentor junior
team members. Regularly communicate with consulting customers, Intertek teams, and the public.
Ageus Solutions
Ottawa, Canada
Engineer
January 2005 – October 2009
Ageus Solutions was a successful independent consulting startup which was integrated into Intertek
Health and Environmental after acquisition. One of the founders of the company. Served on board of
Directors and as a corporate officer. Responsible for legal due diligence during M&A . Designed core
analytical services and directed team of regulatory researchers.
Nortel Networks
Optical Components — Ottawa, Canada
IC Designer
June 2000 – December 2004
The former Nortel Optical Components Group designed and fabricated GaAs ICs for use in optical long
haul equipment. Analyzed integrated circuits and discrete semiconductor devices for root-cause of
failure. Assembled and ran laboratory at minimal cost during downsizing. Experimentally demon-
strated recurring failure mechanisms. Advised manufacturing operations to implement corrective
action.
Education
Carleton University
Ottawa, Canada
Bachelor of Computer Science, Honors
2018
With High Distinction. Data management, AI , and software engineering. Web and mobile application
development. Computer Vision. Awarded Senate Medal for Outstanding Academic Achievement
University of Manitoba
Winnipeg, Canada
B.Sc. (Electrical Engineering)
1999
Focused on microelectronics and VLSI design. Acquired proficiency in IC design tools, statistics and
mathematics, and C++ .
Udacity
Data Scientist Nanodegree
2019
Supervised learning, Unsupervised Learning, Deep Learning, Stakeholder Communication, Experi-
mental Design, Software Engineering, ETL Pipelines, NLP PipelinesSelected Professional Projects
Material Risk Analysis Application
Purpose: Analyzes a customer’s supply chain for material risks. Evaluated multi-class machine
learning algorithms including Naive Bayesian Classifier, Support Vector Machine, and Random Forest
to determine the types of materials used in a product based on text extracted from its design files.
Renders a tabular report with recommended testing plan or design revisions, to assist a material science
SME . Deployed in a Flask application using a REST API .
Results: Reduced a multi-week engineering workflow to hours. Allows customers to apply chemical
testing in a targeted, cost-effective manner. 718 successful customer-projects to date.
Technology: Python (Scikit-learn, Pandas, NumPy, Flask, NLTK ), Jupyter Notebooks, SQL , Javascript,
Supervised Machine Learning, Statistical Analysis, Natural Language Processing, Information Theory
Material Risk Knowledge Base
Purpose: Periodically mines product recall and litigation repositories to obtain up-to-date chemical
infraction data set. Cleans and transforms raw HTML and XML , processes free text, and stores results
in SQL repository.
Results: Intertek maintains an industry-leading knowledge base on current uses of 723 regulated
chemicals, and in which of 214 material or component types they occur.
Technology:
Python (Pandas, Requests, NLTK ), Java, SQL
ETL Pipelines
Purpose: Automates customers’ product design encodings and results of conformity assessments
from various sources. Maps schemas, cleans data, stores in engineering SQL database.
Results: Intertek is able to accept product conformity data from in-house sources, third-party service
providers, or customers, and deliver a consistent, repeatable analysis product.
Technology:
Python, SQL
Personal or Academic Projects
Carleton University Honors Project
Purpose: Uses Natural Language Processing to extract product structure and composition from free
text obtained from industrial designs. Implemented in C++ .
Results: Portions of this project were suitable for deployment in an industrial setting, as part of
Intertek’s Risk Analysis Application. The project was awarded a grade of A+ .
Technology:
in C++
C++ , Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, NLTK API . Built NLP from scratch
TSX Value Anaylzer
Purpose: Built to investigate fundamental analysis at a time when “value invesing” was out of style
and “value stocks” were depressed in price. It uses a regression learner trained on fundamentals, and
predicts five-year returns of candidate investments. The Shiny framework provides the user with a
GUI .
Results: Application performs well in real-world situations; selected candidates have exceeded the
S&P/TSX Composite Index.
Technology:
R , SQL , Javascript
Udacity Deep-Learning Project
Purpose: Classify the Oxford ”Flowers” dataset by species using a convolutional neural network.
Technology: Pytorch, Deep neural networks, Computer vision
Udacity Supervised Learning Project
Purpose: Evaluated Random Forest, Adaboost, Bayesian Classifiers in scikit-learn using the California
Census dataset.
Technology: Python, Jupyter Notebooks, scikit-learn